Add secure infra docs (#1184)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/secure-systems/infrastructure/zero-trust-security.mdx

---
page_title: Implement zero trust security and networking
description: Learn how a zero trust security model enhances security by eliminating implicit trust and continuously verifying access requests.
---

# Implement zero trust security and networking

In traditional infrastructure, security focused on securing the network perimeter
using firewalls, VPNs, and other network security tools.

Securing modern infrastructure requires a new approach to security. While most
of the security principles and tools are still utilized, how you implement a
strong security program has changed.

In the secure infrastructure series, you will learn about the importance of
shifting your security focus to identities, instead of the traditional network
perimeter. You will also see the importance of incorporating security into your
organization's culture, enabling security automation to improve efficiency and
reduce human error. You will then review how you should manage ingress and
egress (north-south) traffic and prevent lateral 
movement to stop unauthorized access and data exfiltration.

> In the secure infrastructure section, you will learn how to adapt your security

Reviewer: Maybe?

```suggestion
In the secure infrastructure series, you will learn how to adapt your security
```

<VideoEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FCWl-1Q-GIQ"/>

Throughout this series, you will see how HashiCorp tools work together, so you
can create a strong security model following zero trust principles across your
infrastructure.

1. **Terraform manages infrastructure changes:**

   - Engineers modify infrastructure through code review.
   - [CI/CD](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/cicd)
     systems use Vault-generated cloud credentials.
   - No human has direct cloud console access.

1. **Vault manages secrets and identities:**

   - Manages static and dynamic secrets.
   - Creates a trusted identity platform to authenticate and authorize users and
     devices.
   - Issues just-in-time credentials for infrastructure access.
   - Manages certificates for both PKI and certificate-based authentication.

1. **Boundary and Vault provide access to infrastructure:**

   - Support teams access infrastructure through Boundary.
   - Vault provides just-in-time credentials for each session.
   - All access is temporary, audited, and automatically expires.

1. **Consul enables network security:**

>    - API gateways and ingress controllers manage north-south traffic with identity-based policies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - API gateways and terminating gateways manage north-south traffic with identity-based policies.
```

   - Reduces the number of people requiring direct infrastructure permissions.

Combining these tools creates a strong foundation for a zero-trust model where
access to infrastructure is both secure and auditable without sacrificing
operational efficiency.

<VideoEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lT11tGaEC3s"/>

Other services to complete your zero trust architecture include:

- **Identity providers** - Centralized [identity and access management
  systems](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/define-access-requirements)
  (Okta, Azure AD, Ping Identity) that integrate with Vault to provide SSO and
  MFA capabilities.
- **SIEM solutions** - Security Information and Event Management (SIEM)
  solutions (Splunk, ELK Stack, Grafana) that collect and analyze logs
  from Vault, Boundary, Consul, and other systems to provide real-time
  monitoring and alerting.
- **Endpoint security solutions** - Tools that ensure devices accessing the
  network meets security standards, such as antivirus software, firewalls, and
  endpoint detection and response (EDR) solutions.

> HashiCorp resources:

Reviewer 3: Should we add a "Get started with Terraform" here as well since it's covered in a few places?
